Cloud 2002.0.16 (#3788)
magento/devdocs: guides/v2.1/cloud/docker/docker-development-debug.md

1.  Open your Docker settings.
1.  Select the **Expose daemon on tcp://localhost:2375 without TLS** checkbox.
1.  Wait for the settings to apply.

## Enable Xdebug

To enable Xdebug, you must configure your `docker/global.php` file at the time you configure your local workstation to [Launch Docker]({{ page.baseurl }}/cloud/docker/docker-config.html) and **before** you convert the PHP configuration files to Docker ENV files. 

Add or update the following variables in the `docker/global.php` file:

```php
<?php

return [
    // Enable Xdebug
    'PHP_ENABLE_XDEBUG' => true,
    // Add the name of the server created in the IDE
    'PHP_IDE_CONFIG' => 'serverName=myServer',
    // Modify the remote Docker host according to your OS
    'XDEBUG_CONFIG' => 'remote_host=host.docker.internal',
];
```

You can change any Xdebug configuration in `XDEBUG_CONFIG` option. For example, to change the `xdebug.remote_port` option:

```
'XDEBUG_CONFIG' => 'remote_host=host.docker.internal remote_port=9002',
```

#### To configure PhpStorm to work with Xdebug:

1.  In your PhpStorm project, open the settings panel.

    -  Mac: select **File** > **Preferences**

>     -  Windows/Linux: select **File** > **Settings**

Author: This is not clear. I though Windows and Linux have similar menu, where Mac has a different one. I will have to ask Sasha.

>     -  Windows/Linux: select **File** > **Settings**

Author: What is there is correct. It is Windows/Linux.
https://www.jetbrains.com/help/phpstorm/configuring-project-and-ide-settings.html

>     -  Windows/Linux: select **File** > **Settings**

Reviewer: so in later steps, it just shows Windows

1.  When PhpStorm recognizes the Xdebug connection, you can begin debugging web requests.

#### To debug CLI commands:

You can debug any Magento command or PHP script using the following steps.

1.  In your PhpStorm project, open the **Build, Extension, Deployment** > **Docker** panel and click `+` to add a new Docker server and update the following settings:

    -   **Name**: Docker Cloud
    -   **Connect to Docker daemon with**:
        -   For _Windows_, select **TCP socket** and update **Engine Api Url** with `tcp://localhost:2375`
        -   For _Mac_, select **Docker for Mac** [default]

1.  In the **Languages & Frameworks** > **PHP** > **Cli Interpreter** panel, click **[...]**.
   
1.  Click **[+]** to add and configure a new Cli Interpreter from your Docker image. Update the following settings:

    -   **Name**: Enter a name for the new interpreter, such as `Magento cloud docker cli`.
    -   **Remote**: Select `Docker`
        -   **Server**: Select `Docker Cloud` from previous step
        -   **Image name**: Select `magento/magento-cloud-docker-php:7.x-cli`
    -   **Additional** > **Debugger extension**:
        -   For Windows, enter `xdebug`

>         -   For Mac/Linux, enter `xdebug.so`

Reviewer: Are the OS specifications correct in this step?

    -   Click **Refresh** to verify that the interpreter and Xdebug are configured properly.
   
1.  Click **Save**.

1.  Open the _Run/Debug Configuration_ window and add a new **PHP script** with the following settings:

    -   **Name**: Enter `bin/magento`
    -   **Configuration** > **File**: Select the path to the `bin/magento` file in your local environment.
  
1.  Add breakpoints in the `bin/magento` file and the debug PHP script created in the previous step.

## Using Xdebug Helper

> The following steps describe how to work with Chrome using the Xdebug Helper extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also install the Xdebug Helper Chrome extension to debug your PhP code from the browser.
```

> #### To use Xdebug Helper with Chrome:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### To use the Xdebug Helper extension with Chrome:
```
